Sunrun acquires Vivint in all stock transaction valued at  $3.2 billion Oct 23, 2020 
6 min read 
Sunrun acquires Vivint in all stock transaction valued at  $3.2 billion  
Sunrun acquires Vivint in all stock transaction valued at  $3.2 billion  
By Vadim Mandel (London School of Economics)  
By Vadim Mandel (London School of Economics)  
 
 
Overview of the Deal  
Overview of the Deal  
 
Sunrun (NYSE: RUN), America’s biggest rooftop- solar company has announced that it will be taking over rival Vivint Solar (VSLR) for $3.2bn in an all-stock transaction in one of the biggest deals in industry history expected to close in the 4th  quarter, pursuant to which each share of Vivint Solar common stock will be exchanged for 0.55 shares of Sunrun common stock, representing a combined  Enterprise Value of $9.2 billion.  
Sunrun (NYSE: RUN), America’s biggest rooftop- solar company has announced 
that it will be taking over rival Vivint Solar (VSLR) for $3.2bn in an  
transaction in one of the biggest deals in industry history expected to close in the 4th  quarter, pursuant to which each share of Vivint Solar common stock will be 
exchanged for 0.55 shares of Sunrun common stock, representing a combined  Enterprise Value of $9.2 billion.  
 
Vivint Solar stockholders are expected to own approximately 36% and Sunrun stockholders are expected to own approximately 64% of the fully diluted shares of the combined company. The exchange ratio implies a 10% premium for Vivint Solar shares and a 15% premium to the exchange ratio. 
Vivint Solar stockholders are expected to own approximately 36% and Sunrun 
stockholders are expected to own approximately 64% of the fully diluted shares of 
the combined company. The exchange ratio implies a 10% premium for Vivint Solar 
shares and a 15% premium to the exchange ratio. 
 
Support Agreements have been obtained from both companies’ largest stockholders,  313 Acquisition LLC (Blackstone affiliate) and Tiger Global, to vote their respective shares in favor of the merger and the share issuance.  
Support Agreements have been obtained from both companies’ largest stockholders,  313 Acquisition LLC (Blackstone affiliate) and Tiger Global, to vote their respective 
shares in favor of the merger and the share issuance.  
 
In addition, 313 Acquisition LLC (Blackstone affiliate) has agreed to lock up 50% of shares obtained as a result of the acquisition for 60 days following closing and the remaining 50% for 120 days. Sales are allowed to occur during these periods subject to certain conditions.  
In addition, 313 Acquisition LLC (Blackstone affiliate) has agreed to lock up 50% of 
shares obtained as a result of the acquisition for 60 days following closing and the 
remaining 50% for 120 days. Sales are allowed to occur during these periods subject 
to certain conditions.  
 
The market is fragmented, so the deal is unlikely to cause antitrust issues. It is estimated that the combined company will be ~20% market share followed by SPWR (Sunpower) at ~10% and NOVA (Sunnova) at 5%.  
The market is fragmented, so the deal is unlikely to cause antitrust issues. It is 
estimated that the combined company will be ~20% market share followed by SPWR (Sunpower) at ~10% and NOVA (Sunnova) at 5%.  
 
Thus, the deal makes Sunrun an undisputed leader in the space, cementing its status its competitors. Both Sunrun and Vivint combined provide over 75% of new residential solar leases each quarter according to BloombergNEF.   
Thus, the deal makes Sunrun an undisputed leader in the space, cementing its 
status its competitors. Both Sunrun and Vivint combined provide over 75% of new 
residential solar leases each quarter according to BloombergNEF.   
 
On the announcement, shares of Sunrun rose 25% while Vivint rallied 37%, on the backdrop of investor enthusiasm for the sector being revived from the pandemic lows as people consider alternative means of generating energy bills savings after staying at home for a prolonged time period, thus providing a fertile ground for installers to market their products.  
On  
announcement, shares of Sunrun rose 25% while Vivint rallied 37%, on  
backdrop 
of investor enthusiasm for the sector being revived from the pandemic lows as 
people consider alternative means of generating energy bills savings after staying at 
home for a prolonged time period, thus providing a fertile ground for installers to 
market their products.  
 
Sunrun was advised by BofA and Morgan Stanley, whereas Vivint Solar was advised by Credit Suisse.  
Sunrun was advised by BofA and Morgan Stanley, whereas Vivint Solar was advised 
by Credit Suisse.  
 
 
Acquirer Company Overview (Sunrun) 
Acquirer Company Overview (Sunrun) 
 
 
Sunrun is the largest residential solar company in the US. The firm specializes in the installation, monitoring, and maintenance of solar panels on homeowner's roofs in order to supply solar electricity. (Source Bloomberg)  
Sunrun is the largest residential solar company in the US. The 
firm specializes in the installation, monitoring, and maintenance 
of solar panels on homeowner's roofs in order to supply solar 
electricity. (Source Bloomberg)  
 
Founded by Lynn Jurich in 2007  
Founded by Lynn Jurich in 2007  
Chairman: Edward H Fenster  
Chairman: Edward H Fenster  
Number of Employees: 4800 (Dec 2019)  
Number of Employees: 4800 (Dec 2019)  
Key shareholders:  
Key shareholders:  
Tiger Global Management LLC (24.74%) (Source CNN  Money)  
Tiger Global Management LLC (24.74%) (Source CNN  Money)  
BlackRock Fund Advisors (10.96%)  
BlackRock Fund Advisors (10.96%)  
The Vanguard Group, Inc. (7.04%)  
The Vanguard Group, Inc. (7.04%)  
Neuberger Berman Investment Advisors (5.55%)  
Neuberger Berman Investment Advisors (5.55%)  
Fidelity Management and Research Co (4.57%)  
Fidelity Management and Research Co (4.57%)  
 
Market cap: 5015 M USD 
Market cap: 5015 M USD 
EV: 7.72B  
EV: 7.72B  
LTM Revenue: 874.8 M USD  
LTM Revenue: 874.8 M USD  
LTM EBITDA: -27.3 M USD  
LTM EBITDA: -27.3 M USD  
LTM EV/Revenue: 7736.1 M USD  
LTM EV/Revenue: 7736.1 M USD  
LTM EV/EBITDA: -283.37x  
LTM EV/EBITDA: -283.37x  
 
 
Target Company Overview (Vivint Solar Inc) 
Target Company Overview (Vivint Solar Inc) 
 
 
Vivint Solar Inc. provides renewable energy solutions. These include the design, installation, and maintenance of affordable solar solutions. 
Vivint Solar Inc. provides renewable energy solutions. These include the design, installation, and maintenance of affordable solar solutions. 
 
Founded in 2011  
Founded in 2011  
CEO/Chairman: David Bywater  
CEO/Chairman: David Bywater  
Number of employees: 5000 (2015)  
Number of employees: 5000 (2015)  
Key shareholders: Fidelity Management & Research Co…(10.11%), Excellence Investments Ltd. (3.24%), Arosa Capital Management LP (2.73%), Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers (2.72%)  
Key shareholders: Fidelity Management & Research Co…(10.11%) 
Excellence Investments Ltd. (3.24%), Arosa Capital Management LP (2.73%) 
Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers (2.72%) 
 
Market cap: 2821.1 M USD  
Market cap: 2821.1 M USD  
EV: 4525.2 M USD  
EV: 4525.2 M USD  
LTM Revenue 362.8 M USD  
LTM Revenue 362.8 M USD  
LTM EBITDA: -80.7  
LTM EBITDA: -80.7  
LTM EV/Revenue: 12.47  
LTM EV/Revenue: 12.47  
LTM EV/EBITDA: -56.0743  
LTM EV/EBITDA: -56.0743  
 
Announcement date: July 6, 2020  
Announcement date: July 6 
 2020  
Target Advisors: Credit Suisse  
Target Advisors: Credit Suisse  
Acquirer Advisors: BoA and Morgan Stanley 
Acquirer Advisors: BoA and Morgan Stanley 
 
 
Short-term Outlook  
Short-term Outlook  
 
The merger that will create the US largest solar power installers is likely to provide a  number of run-rate cost synergies, estimated at $90 million on an annual basis.   
The merger that will create the US largest solar power installers is likely to provide a  number of  
 cost synergies, estimated at $90 million on an annual basis.   
 
These include consolidation and optimization of their branch footprint, reducing redundant spending on technology systems, scaling proprietary racking (installation)  technology, and improving sourcing capabilities for their supply chains.  
These include consolidation and optimization of their branch footprint, reducing 
redundant spending on technology systems, scaling proprietary racking (installation)  technology, and improving sourcing capabilities for their supply chains.  
 
As a consequence of the deal, analysts predict that consumers should be able to benefit from lower prices as the NewCo may pass on run-rate cost synergy benefits due to increased operations scale and a larger R&D effort providing increased access to lower-cost manufacturing methods. The competition is likely to have to compete with lower prices offered by the NewCo as a result of increased purchasing power. This may thus result in lower costs passed on to consumers. Therefore, rival firms will need to develop new processes and strategies in order to compete with the lower prices and wider reach Sunrun will have as a result of this transaction.   
As a consequence of the deal, analysts predict that consumers should be able to 
benefit from lower prices as the NewCo may pass on  
 cost synergy benefits 
due to increased operations scale and a larger R&D effort providing increased 
access to  
 manufacturing methods. The competition is likely to have to 
compete with lower prices offered by the NewCo as a result of  
 purchasing 
power. This may thus result in lower costs passed on to consumers. Therefore, rival 
firms will need to develop new processes and strategies in order to compete with the 
lower prices and wider reach Sunrun will have as a result of this transaction.   
 
Sunrun will become a leading owner of solar assets globally with nearly 500,000  customers and more than 3 Gigawatts of solar energy.  
Sunrun will become a leading owner of solar assets globally with nearly 500,000  customers and more than 3 Gigawatts of solar energy.  
 
It is also worth mentioning that because the vast majority of US energy consumers are prisoners to a single power company, and with the increased electricity usage during the lock-down, more and more households are looking to save on their bills,  thus looking at alternatives, which may have seemed unviable previously. The lower cost profile of NewCo’s product offerings coupled with reinvigorated marketing efforts post-pandemic may look attractive for US consumers to change their energy plan to incorporate solar power, thus the company may see robust growth in their consumer base by end of 2020 through to mid-2021. 
It is also worth mentioning that because the vast majority of US energy consumers 
are prisoners to a single power company, and with the increased electricity usage 
during the lock-down, more and more households are looking to save on their bills,  thus looking at alternatives, which may have seemed unviable previously. The lower 
cost profile of NewCo’s product offerings coupled with reinvigorated marketing efforts 
 may look attractive for US consumers to change their energy plan to 
incorporate solar power, thus the company may see robust growth in their 
consumer base by end of 2020 through to mid-2021. 
 
  
  
Long-term Outlook 
Long-term Outlook 
 
The combination of R&D resources and a shared vision to “create a planet run by the sun” will enable the NewCo to speed up the offers of cutting-edge technologies such as virtual power plants and a variety of energy services programs to a larger target market.  
The combination of R&D resources and a shared vision to “create a planet run by 
the sun” will enable the NewCo to speed up the offers of cutting-edge technologies 
such as virtual power plants and a variety of energy services programs to a larger 
target market.  
 
Studies show that residential solar has reached only 3% penetration in the United  States today and yet surveys show nearly 9 out of 10 people in the United States favor the increased adoption of solar power. The acquisition of Vivint Solar adds a   
Studies show that residential solar has reached only 3% penetration in the United  States today and yet surveys show nearly 9 out of 10 people in the United States 
favor the increased adoption of solar power. The acquisition of Vivint Solar adds a   
complementary direct-to-home sales channel to Sunrun’s platform, increasing  NewCo's reach and capabilities in a growing market that is projected to climb from  11 percent of total U.S. renewable generation in 2017 to 48 percent by 2050.   
complementary direct-to-home sales channel to Sunrun’s platform, increasing  NewCo's reach and capabilities in a growing market that is projected to climb from  11 percent of total U.S. renewable generation in 2017 to 48 percent by 2050.   
 
Educating customers on the merits of solar energy is necessary in order to increase sales and installation metrics. Therefore, Vivint Solar’s highly skilled consultations field sales experts will be a crucial part of building a new platform to serve as ambassadors so that consumers continue to learn about the benefits of solar energy.   
Educating customers  
 the merits of solar energy is necessary in order to increase 
sales and installation metrics. Therefore, Vivint Solar’s highly skilled consultations field sales experts will be a crucial part of building a new platform to serve as 
ambassadors so that consumers continue to learn about the benefits of solar energy.   
 
These ambassadors educate consumers on the wide-ranging benefits of solar energy through virtual consultations such as the financial benefits of installation on energy bills and the long value in committing to investing in sustainable energy. The transaction will enable the NewCo to add a complementary Direct-to-Home Sales  Channel to the Platform and would accelerate operating and scale efficiencies to enhance customer and shareholder value.  
These ambassadors educate consumers on the wide-ranging benefits of solar 
energy through virtual consultations such as the financial benefits of installation on 
energy bills and the long value in committing to investing in sustainable energy. The 
transaction will enable the NewCo to add a complementary Direct-to-Home Sales  Channel to  
Platform and would accelerate operating and scale efficiencies to 
enhance customer and shareholder value.  
 
Both companies have adapted to the current environment by accelerating digital lead generation efforts and rolling out contactless selling and installation. Thus, the synergy offers setting the foundation for structural cost reductions and improved customer experience. Therefore, there is scope for increased revenues as a result of access to a greater target market as well as higher margins due to reduced operating costs.  
Both companies have adapted to the current environment by accelerating digital lead 
generation efforts and rolling out contactless selling and installation. Thus, the 
synergy offers setting the foundation for structural cost reductions and improved 
customer experience. Therefore, there is scope for increased revenues as  
result of access to a greater target market as well as higher margins due to reduced 
operating costs.  
 
In addition, it is expected that additional revenue synergies will generate enhanced value creation for both NewCo’s customers and shareholders due to a larger base of solar assets. The NewCo is expected to offer batteries to the combined base of solar customers.   
In addition, it is expected that additional revenue synergies will generate enhanced 
value creation for both NewCo’s customers and shareholders due to a larger 
base of solar assets. The NewCo is expected to offer batteries to the combined base 
of solar customers.   
 
A higher reach of solar and battery assets also increases the value that NewCo can bring to grid services partnerships and strengthens its ability to deliver considerable value in that industry.   
A higher reach of solar and battery assets also increases the value that NewCo can 
bring to grid services partnerships and strengthens its ability to deliver considerable 
value in that industry.   
 
It also looks likely that there will be benefits from efficiencies in large scale project finance capital raising activities. This provides an excellent opportunity for NewCo to build an even stronger and more recognizable consumer brand in residential energy services.  
It also looks likely that there will be benefits from efficiencies in large scale project 
finance capital raising activities. This provides an excellent opportunity for NewCo to 
build an even stronger and more recognizable consumer brand in residential energy 
services.  
 
 
Risks to the Deal  
Risks to the Deal  
 
There are a number of risks that could affect this transaction. Firstly, if the Covid-19  crisis lasts longer than expected, there could be further disruptions to demand and supply as well as complementary markets, let alone direct marketing channels.  
There are a number of risks that could affect this transaction. Firstly, if the Covid-19  crisis lasts longer than expected, there could be further disruptions to demand and 
supply as well as complementary markets, let alone direct marketing channels.  
 
Secondly, there is a risk that the residential solar market could grow at a slower rate relative to expectations or shift toward homeowners making outright cash purchases that bypass lease and loan options.   
Secondly, there is a risk that the residential solar market could grow at a slower rate 
relative to expectations or shift toward homeowners making outright cash purchases 
that bypass lease and loan options.   
 
The firm’s ability to grow depends on its ability to raise capital from third-party investors to fund investment for the rooftop solar systems and storage that support the provision of Sunrun customer service, so disruption to the capital markets could slow the firm’s growth prospects relative to expectations.   
The firm’s ability to grow depends on its ability to raise capital from third-party 
investors to fund investment for the rooftop solar systems and storage that support 
the provision of Sunrun customer service, so disruption to the capital markets could 
slow the firm’s growth prospects relative to expectations.   
 
It is worth noting that Sunrun faces head-on competition from other national residential solar service companies and a host of regional and local companies. In the future, more utility companies may also look to add residential solar systems in unregulated markets, competing with Sunrun, and as the market matures,  competition for customers could lead to depressed pricing and diminishing returns on investments.   
It is worth noting that Sunrun faces head-on competition from other national 
residential solar service companies and a host of regional and local companies. In 
the future, more  
 companies may also look to add residential solar systems in 
unregulated markets, competing with Sunrun, and as the market matures,  competition for customers could lead to depressed pricing and diminishing returns on 
investments.   
 
Thirdly, as this industry is reliant on governmental support, there is a risk that Federal, State, and Local authorities are positioned to terminate or reverse tax credits, renewable energy credits, and other incentives or impose charges on rooftop solar customers who want to connect to the grid, which could hinder growth relative to expectations.   
Thirdly, as this industry is reliant on governmental support, there is a risk that Federal, State, and Local authorities are positioned to terminate or reverse tax credits, renewable energy credits, and other incentives or impose 
charges on rooftop solar customers who want to connect to the grid, which could hinder growth relative to expectations.   
 
Moreover, the loss of key executives could lead to execution challenges and weakening of relationships. Lastly, in adverse economic circumstances, it is possible  
Moreover, the loss of key executives could lead to execution challenges and 
weakening of relationships. Lastly, in adverse economic circumstances, it is possible  
that Sunrun’s customers could be late in paying their electricity bills or stop paying altogether, weighing on cash flow from operations.  
that Sunrun’s customers could be late in paying their electricity bills or stop paying 
altogether, weighing on cash flow from operations.  
 
Furthermore, growing solar equipment costs, rising interest rates could lead to higher system costs, which could slow adoption growth. A change in interest rates also may cause investors to assign a higher/lower discount rate in their NPV calculation,  leading to lower/higher valuations. 
Furthermore, growing solar equipment costs, rising interest rates could lead to higher 
system costs, which could slow adoption growth. A change in interest rates also may 
cause investors to assign a higher/lower discount rate in their NPV calculation,  leading to lower/higher valuations. 
  
  
“Vivint Solar and Sunrun have long shared a common goal of bringing clean,  affordable, resilient energy to homeowners. Joining forces with Sunrun will allow us  to reach a broader set of customers and accelerate the pace of clean energy adoption  and grid modernization. We believe this transaction will create value for our  customers, our shareholders, and our partners.”  
“Vivint Solar and Sunrun have long shared a common goal of bringing clean,  affordable, resilient energy to homeowners. Joining forces with Sunrun will allow us  to reach a broader set of customers and accelerate the pace of clean energy adoption  and grid modernization. We believe this transaction will create value for our  customers, our shareholders, and our partners.”  
David Bywater, Chief Executive Officer of Vivint Solar  
David Bywater, Chief Executive Officer of Vivint Solar  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These are all the in text references. First is the word that was missing from the text and then the link. 

